[<<  Back to Index](index.md)


#### [Episode 2 - Him](him2.md)


### Episode 2 - Her
There was a way in which she found it very easy to be in his company. With him, life for her was like being in a carnival. Even if she didn't take all the rides, he'd still have something to say about each of them that in the end, she wouldn't feel that she missed any. None of the differences or fights would last , because both of them were eager to enjoy the rest of the rides before time gets over. But she did remember feeling that this fight seemed nastier than the rest. It was probably more than 2 years since she had been spending most of her waking hours with him. They work in the same team in the same office. They have coffee, lunch and dinner together and after returning to their homes, spent a lot of time talking about everything under the sun, over the phone. This fight was over the phone, in the night and that was the first time when she felt that it was possible for them to be on two sides and stay in their respective sides without anybody budging or bothering to cross over. It did not feel good.

Next day she woke up with terrible stomach cramps and stayed in the bed. When he called, she told him she was not coming to office and asked him to communicate it to the manager. She was still angry with him and didn't exchange pleasantries. She must have dozed off when she heard a knock at the door. He was standing with a sheepish smile holding something in his hand and came in saying, I felt so worried and so guilty. Look, I brought you curd rice! She couldn't help smiling and as always his presence put her at peace. She fed her the rice with a spoon and stroked her hair as she was lying down. She had never felt so pampered by anyone, apart from her mother. 

She remembered the first time when she realized that as long as he was there, everything was going to be ok. That has been her summary of her feelings for him at that point in time. That was the day after which she changed her consistent "NO" to a "Maybe YES". She had spent so many months saying "NO" to his attempts to propose love that when the "YES" came, it was out of the blue, especially for her! She would not let him as much as hold her hand, but they continued to be in their magical world of companionship and fun like two kids. One day, when he was dropping her back from the airport at her place, she said something which was intended as a joke but which struck the wrong chord. He was hurt and she felt terrible. When he was leaving, she suddenly hugged him. She did not know where that came from, she was not a hugger! But it felt right, and for the first time, even in bangalore, she felt at home. 

She later read in "Gone with the wind" about a recurring dream the heroine had - about her climbing a hill, panicking. The climb seemed endless.... In the end, the dream changed into her running into her beloved's arms and after that there was no uphill - It was bliss from there. That was more or less what I felt, what I still feel, in his arms.