  [<<  Back to Index](index.md)


### The Sacred Thread! (That divide between pure bloods and mudbloods)

She had been worried about him ever since he confided to her about his mother's death when he was a child. He was reluctant to discuss it but she believed that the childhood trauma was still within him and desperately wanted release for him. He was not yet seeing things clearly and would get annoyed at her insistence, claiming that it was strictly in the past and that he had forgotten all about it. He did have a vague intention of starting an annual ritual on his mother's death anniversary but wasn't sure how to go about it. Brahmin rituals were esoteric and required guidance from a qualified priest of sorts. She insisted that he set about finding one.

One of their friends gave them the contact details of a Tamil Brahmin professor living in Kochi, suggesting that he may be able to guide him to a Vadhyar. He was hesitant about making the call because it would entail providing details about his mother's death, his father's remarriage and his estrangement with his family. He had hoped that the professor, being elderly, would be discreet and maybe even reassuring. He need not have harboured such hopes at all because the professor turned out to be a typical middle-aged maama, crotchety in manner and generally contemptuous of everyone and everything. When he explained his predicament of wanting to perform a brahmin ritual while being married to a non-brahmin, the professor irritatingly enquired if his father had also remarried a non-brahmin. He didn't understand the relevance of the question and cynically put it down as the old man's attempt to evaluate the amount of "impurity" they were dealing with. With the contact number of the vaadhyar secured, he prepared for the next ordeal.

The vadhyar turned out to be an old man. Just from his voice over the phone, he sounded poor, uneducated and yet arrogant. He already had misgivings about calling this person but persisted in his mission of at least getting further information. The vadhyar was slow in understanding the situation but quickly warmed up when he heard the respectful and hesitant tone at the other end. He started out sanctioning their relationship for, by his reasoning, who has not been tempted by women from other castes? But, he insisted, she should not be part of the ritual and if possible, not allowed anywhere in the vicinity. The first remark had set off his rage and by then, he was practically seething. The only words that came to him were vile and filthy but he had to hold them back. Trying to level his voice, he muttered simply that he was not interested in the ritual anymore. The vadhyar was slightly taken aback by this turn of events, but he ignored that and quickly put the phone down.

He was left all alone with his rage which refused to burn down within him. He felt helpless because he had put himself at their mercy. He even felt unreasonably angry at her for insisting that he take this path. There seemed to be nobody at whom he could actively direct his anger and disgust. He had never been a supporter of the caste system or it's inhuman beliefs. He had merely wanted to uphold a vague sense of heritage and now he was sure he wanted no part of it. Then, what remained was only the sign of centuries of entitlement and oppression against fellow-beings - his poonool. He had obviously decided to give it up, but not just in a quiet act of relinquishing it. He wanted to make it an expression of his personal angst and protest against the vile system and its propagators. He went to the toilet, dropped the holy thread and flushed it. The irony of the holy symbol of caste meeting its very notion of impurity was not lost on him. 

~ Him